The more you study,
the more you understand Jehovah.
The more you understand Jehovah,
the more you love him.
Jehovah clearly tells us:
“My thoughts are not your thoughts.”
So if we want to understand
Jehovah’s thinking better,
we need to dig deep in our study,
and then we share those thoughts with others.
Personal study is like fuel
that keeps you going.
Personally, I’m not a good student,
but I really learned how to study the Bible.
The Bible came alive during Gilead.
Self-discipline is involved
—very much.
I overcome the tiredness aspect
of Bible study by not doing it
at a time of day
when I know I’m going to be tired.
I can be tired for other things later on
—but not for that.
Each session of my Bible study
begins with a prayer,
“Please help me recognize
it is counsel for me,
and then give me the strength
to work on it.”
I have a color-coded system,
so I know what certain things stand for.
I have a particular color
for Jehovah’s good hand in people’s lives;
I have another color for warning examples;
I have another for fine examples to imitate.
You have to get behind the information,
not just focus on one verse or one chapter.
See who’s involved, the time,
the conditions, how many people are there,
and then you’ll get
the true meaning of the verse.
John 1:1,
who is “the Word”?
We can go to verse 18.
“Begotten” meant
he had a beginning,
a time when he started
—when he began—
in heaven with his Father.
That’s where he was.
Philippians 4:6, 7 is a scripture
that I’ve read many times over.
“The peace of God that excels all thought.”
OK, how do you get that?
It’s from having
a good relationship with Jehovah.
How is it that God’s peace
‘guards your heart’?
“By means of Christ Jesus” our Lord.
And I said: “Why by Jesus?
“Because Jesus paid the ransom;
that ransom is what makes possible
a relationship with Jehovah.”
So it almost goes full circle.
I attended a School for Congregation Elders
that had Gilead graduates as instructors.
One of the methods is to analyze
a certain Bible account
from different perspectives.
We can’t see
the whole picture from one angle.
I share my research results
with Bible students,
and that helps them
to know Jehovah better,
and it helps them to see
that what they’re studying
is of practical value.
I had studied up on Jacob;
he wrestled all night
with an angel.
And I wanted to share it
with some of my friends.
One of the brothers
that happened to sit around
when this discussion was going on
came back to me, and he said to me:
“I had concluded my arrangements
“to quit full-time service.
“But after listening to that discussion,
I’ve decided that I’m no longer stopping.”
And that was
such a wonderful moment for me.
I thanked Jehovah.
When I learned that I
was going to become a mom,
I said, “Jehovah, if this little one
could love you,
then I’ll get to keep him forever.”
And I began to teach everything
I was learning to him.
So it’s a matter
of keeping my faith strong,
and there’s no shortcut.
Every session of study
that is properly done with good meditation
adds a new pillar
to the strength of our faith.
I look forward to those times
when I can, you know,
run upstairs by myself
and just shut everything off,
and it’s just me and Jehovah.
Life today is very unpredictable,
but I’ve come to see that as long as I
keep a tight grip on God’s Word,
nothing can “separate [me] from God’s love.”